

This a model from the article:  
**A model of sino-atrial node electrical activity based on a modification of the DiFrancesco-Noble (1984) equations.**   
Noble D, Noble SJ. _Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci._ 1984 Sep
22;222(1228):295-304. [6149553](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6149553) ,  
**Abstract:**   
DiFrancesco & Noble's (1984) equations (Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (in the
press.] have been modified to apply to the mammalian sino-atrial node. The
modifications are based on recent experimental work. The modified equations
successfully reproduce action potential and pacemaker activity in the node.
Slightly different versions have been developed for peripheral regions that
show a maximum diastolic potential near --75 mV and for central regions that
do not hyperpolarize beyond --60 to --65 mV. Variations in extracellular
potassium influence the frequency of pacemaker activity in the s.a. node model
very much less than they do in the Purkinje fibre model. This corresponds well
to the experimental observation that the node is less sensitive to external
[K] than are Purkinje fibres. Activation of the Na-K exchange pump in the
model by increasing intracellular sodium can suppress pacemaker activity. This
phenomenon may contribute to the mechanism of overdrive suppression.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Noble D, Noble SJ. (1984) - version04**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/noble_noble_1984_version04)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny, J**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
Oxford University  
Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

